At 1 Corinthians 2:13,
the apostle Paul wrote:
“These things we also speak,
“not with words taught by human wisdom,
“but with those taught by the spirit,
as we explain spiritual matters
with spiritual words.”
Explaining “spiritual matters
with spiritual words”
is accomplished by combining
the power of God’s inspired Word
with the power of our publications
that are prepared
with the help of holy spirit.
When we allow the publications
of “the faithful and discreet slave”
to explain God’s Word,
this has the most powerful, motivating effect
on our minds and hearts.
That is the main objective
here in the Theocratic Schools Department
at Patterson, New York.
At first, it may seem straightforward enough.
However, the very nature of divine education
is not static.
Rather, it’s dynamic
because our God is dynamic.
As Jehovah’s purpose advances,
so does our understanding.
As a result, everything taught
at our theocratic schools
must be kept up-to-date.
And that’s no small task.
In the past nine years,
around 800,000 students have attended
just three schools in the field:
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
the School for Congregation Elders,
and the School
for Circuit Overseers and Their Wives.
We want each student
in every school
to benefit
from our most current understanding.
How does the Schools Department
keep global curriculums current,
unified, and motivating?
So one of the important tools that we have
is our Watch Tower Publications Index.
In the index, there’s a section
entitled “Beliefs Clarified,”
and we have had quite a few clarifications
in the last ten years.
So we follow that very, very closely.
And we’re looking at
when there is a belief clarified,
how will that affect the outlines
we have in our schools
—what’s being taught?
And do we need to make a change?
How can we incorporate that into an outline?
And that way, the instructors
will always have the freshest
and the most up-to-date materials
to teach the classes.
Now, we want to take special note
of Galatians chapter 2
and especially verse 19.
Paul was not speaking about dying
as a condemned criminal
under the Mosaic Law
as we previously understood.
Rather, Paul was highlighting
and speaking
about being liberated from the Law.
There are times
when a Scriptural point is changed,
a citation needs to be changed,
or a reference is no longer appropriate,
and so the outlines
have to be revised accordingly.
When a revision is made in one outline,
all the other components in that unit
—such as the instructor’s outline,
the student’s outline, and the study guide—
must be checked, updated, and harmonized.
Then that newly revised unit
is sent around the world
to the branch offices
to be translated and implemented
into around 150 languages
in which these schools are taught.
And that’s just for one lesson,
in one school.
However, units are often shared
across multiple schools.
So when a change is made in one unit
—for example, in Gilead—
we have to make that change
in all the other school curriculums
where that unit appears.
In this way, all the schools
stay harmonious and unified.
Since Gilead is our largest curriculum,
it takes diligent effort
to keep it fresh and motivating.
One of the things
that’s been used in Gilead for decades
has been the use of visual aids,
and usually they were handmade models.
An example of that is the tabernacle.
This really helped students to understand
what the tabernacle looked like,
how it was made,
and how it was put together and came apart.
As technology has developed,
now we have 3D models
on a person’s tablet
or on the monitors in the classroom.
We can actually take them
to the tabernacle.
We can turn the tabernacle.
We can show it in different ways
—things that just weren’t possible
80 years ago when Gilead got its start.
Another way the Schools Department works
to keep the Gilead curriculum
fresh and up-to-date
is by incorporating our latest publications
and video segments as soon as possible.
For example, the Daniel drama
that was released
at the regional convention in 2021,
we got the materials in September of 2021,
and we were able to extract the portions
that we wanted to be used in Gilead
by December of 2021.
So it really only took four months
to get that all processed
and put into the curriculum.
Well, after seeing the dream
or what it may have looked like,
you can understand why Daniel wrote
that Nebuchadnezzar
was so agitated
that he couldn’t sleep.
Another example of our efforts
to keep our Gilead curriculum
fresh and up-to-date
was the release of the Bible study aid
Enjoy Life Forever!
Shortly after its release
in 2021,
it was soon put into the Gilead curriculum
and we began teaching it in our workshops.
Well, we would certainly like
to thank our two sisters
for that excellent demonstration.
So how did the teacher
use the “Explore” section of the book
to help reach the heart of her student?
Since Gilead School
and pioneer school share similar lessons,
the adjustments needed to be made
to the pioneer school curriculum as well.
Pioneers are going to absolutely love
the updated curriculum
for the Pioneer Service School.
Not only have references been updated
—so the Teach Us  and God’s Love  book
references have been updated
to the Enjoy Life Forever!  book—
but the workshops
are now redesigned to help pioneers
to start Bible studies
using the new publication,
to learn how to use its features effectively,
and even how to adapt each lesson
to their own Bible students.
The new pioneer school
will just build on their enthusiasm,
their excitement to start Bible studies.
In any form of the ministry,
they’ll be looking to start Bible studies.
And that enthusiasm is contagious,
so we know that it’ll actually have
a good effect on congregations worldwide.
Not only does
the Theocratic Schools Department
revise individual units in the curriculums
but at times entire schools.
During the COVID-19 pandemic,
the curriculum for the School
for Circuit Overseers and Their Wives
was completely revised.
And once approved
by the Teaching Committee,
it was sent to the branches worldwide
for translation.
We were very excited
when the Teaching Committee
sent us the letter about the School
for Circuit Overseers and Their Wives.
It was going to be an interactive school
with workshops, new outlines,
new videos, study guides.
When you have someone
who loves Jehovah and the ministry
and you dig deep into the Scriptures,
it has a very powerful effect
on the person.
And it can even change your “spiritual DNA,”
as the saying goes.
We could see that it was going to be
a very powerful course.
Combining spiritual matters
with spiritual words
throughout our global Theocratic Schools
takes tremendous work,
but Jehovah is clearly blessing
the efforts of everyone involved.
Well, it’s obvious that Jehovah
wants his people to be educated.
And the amount of effort and resources
that the faithful slave have put
into educating God’s people
is second to none.
People come to school
—they attend a theocratic school—
and they’re built up.
But then they go,
and they affect the people around them.
These ones that go through these schools
want to talk about the things they learned
and they felt and they experienced,
and how it has affected them.
And they’re going to talk about it.
You’re going to hear it
at your midweek meeting.
at the Watchtower  Study.
You’ll see a brother work in parts
in his public talks.
Out in the ministry, they’re sharing.
And you know,
expression deepens impression.
And so as they give,
it deepens the truth in them
even more.
Jehovah is making sure
that throughout the globe,
spiritual matters are explained
with spiritual words
—his inspired words,
his textbook.
You may not have the circumstances
to attend a theocratic school
beyond your midweek meeting,
but we all have access
to the same textbook.
So every time you make
an updated note in your textbook
—God’s Word—
whether it’s a clarified belief
or a point from our publications,
you are, in effect, in school with us.
We are so thankful
that Jehovah has helped us
to keep divine education in sync
with his unfolding purpose,
no matter who we are or where we live.
And be assured,
divine education is not winding down,
it’s just beginning.